Add troubleshooting section for the date filter (#16549)
elastic/logstash: docs/static/troubleshoot/ts-date.asciidoc

[[ts-date]]
==== Date Filter issues and solutions
 
[discrete] 
[[ts-date-locale]]
===== Date Parse Failures when using certain Locales

*Symptoms*

> The {ls} Date Filter is unexpectedly unable to parse dates after upgrading to {ls} `8.15+`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The {ls} Date Filter is unable to parse certain dates after upgrading to {ls} `8.15+`:
```

A date filter configured to parse dates as follows:

```
date { locale => "en_gb" match => [ "[date]" , "yyyy MMM dd HH:mm:ss" ] target => "[parsed_date]"
```

when parsing the date `2024 Sep 30 11:11:11` would, prior to `8.15.0`, have created the following entry in the event:

```
"parsed_date" => 2024-09-30T11:11:11.000Z,
```

After `8.15.0`, this would have failed to parse with the following added instead:

```
"tags" => [
        [0] "_dateparsefailure"
    ]
```

as it now expects the date to be  `2024 Sept 30 11:11:11` for that specific locale.

*Background*

Between JDK17 and JDK21, a change was made in the locale provider provided by the JVM internal.
JDK17 and JDK21 uses the https://cldr.unicode.org/[CLDR] locale provider by default, and between the release of JDK17 and JDK21, the version
of CLDR used by the default changed from version 37 to version 42.

> This change included an update that changed the abbreviated form of September from `Sep` to `Sept` in certain locales, including `en_GB` and `en_AU`.
> This has caused some parse failures when there is a mismatch between the abbreviated form of date between Logstash and where the date was created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To accommodate CLDR 38 in the JDK, https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/1279/files#diff-97210acd6f77c4f4979c43445d60ba1c369f058230e41177dceca697800b1fa2R116[openjdk/jdk#1279] changed the abbreviated form of September from `Sep` to `Sept` in certain locales, including `en_GB` and `en_AU`.
This caused parse failures when there is a mismatch in the abbreviated form of date between Logstash and where the date was created.
```

For example, if the systems running Logstash are running with either an `en_AU` or `en_GB locale`, they will
 expect September dates to use the `Sept` abbreviated form when the format states `MMM`.
If the systems generating these dates are creating dates with a Sep abbreviation, parsing will fail.

{ls} `8.15.0` upgraded the bundled JDK version to JDK21, which included the updated version of the `CLDR`, changing the
date parsing behavior for certain locales.

** Mitigations**

> * Change the locale in the date filter to a locale that still uses `Sep` as the abbreviated form for September, such as `en_US`.

Reviewer 2: Q: Can it be changed by using the ENV vars like https://www.baeldung.com/linux/locale-environment-variables ?

> * Switch out the locale provider from CLDR to compat by setting `-Djava.locale.providers=COMPAT,SPI` in `jvm.options`.

Reviewer 2: This option needs to be protected with a "Only for JDK < 23"

Reviewer: Logstash only supports 11, 17 and 21.

>  Note that this will fail for anyone using JDK23 and above, which drops support for the `compat` locale provider
> * Add filters to substitute `Sep` with `Sept` for all fields where the date is being parsed by the date filter.
> Make sure these filters are *before* the date filter in the pipeline configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that JDK23 drops support for the `compat` locale provider. A solutions is to add mutate filters to substitute `Sep` with `Sept` for all fields where the date is being parsed by the date filter.
Make sure these filters are placed *before* the date filter in the pipeline configuration.
```
